同事 

First, a colleague is supposed to be efficient in work. When given a task by 
the boss, all the team members should take their duties and cooperate well in 
order to finish it quickly. If one of the colleagues is slow and left behind, 
a project will be delayed. 
Secondly, I think a colleague should be ready to help others. When a new 
employee comes to the company, he knows little about the work, so it is his 
colleagues who are supposed to help him. But there are some staff members who 
wouldn’t like to help others, for they are afraid that others will excel 
them afterwards. Certainly, it has a toll on the company. 
Work is a serious business, and must be approached with a serious attitude. 
An office worker should has a serious attitude if he want further promotion. 
On the whole, in the modern society, all colleagues have to cooperate with 
each other. So these characteristics are of great importance. 

領導 

I think a leader needs at least two important characteristics. 
First, a leader should be good at management. There are usually a great 
number of members under the charge of one leader, so a leader is supposed to 
organize everything well in order to make a company run smoothly. 
Secondly, a good leader should be good at making decisions. A good and 
correct decision can lead to the final success, whereas a wrong and delayed 
decision may bring about disasters to the company. Of course, this skill 
requires a lot of working experience. 

Obviously, there are some other important characteristics of a good leader, 
but these two are the most important, in my mind. 

朋友 

One of the characteristics for a friend I would prefer most is honesty. I 
think honesty is the foundation of a friendship. If friends cheat mutually 
and then there would be no trust between them. How can they even make 
friends? 
Secondly, a good friend should be reliable. Everybody certainly appreciate a 
friend who is a phone call away especially in his difficult time. Just as the 
old saying, a friend in need is a friend indeed. True friendship is 
strengthened in difficulties. For example, when a student bomb his exam, a 
good friend should encourage and be eager to help him. 
When I am making friends with someone, I often take these two as the vital 
standards. 


風景 

The place that I would recommend them to visit is Hainan which is a coastal 
city in china. The sky there is blue and always full of sunshine. They can 
bask under the sunlight and enjoy the charming ocean view when the ocean 
breeze is blowing and the seabirds are singing. 
Moreover, they could have a taste of the fresh seafood, such as lobsters and 
crabs, in the restaurants beside the sea. Finally, they could buy some 
meaningful souvenirs for their family or friends when they leave there. 


民俗 

First, we have a gorgeous ceremony. I often watch the firework show at 
midnight when you can see the firework light up the whole sky. Besides, the 
dinner of the Eve is really a feast and all the family members come together 
to enjoy this time. I like to eat the dumplings and rice cakes most which are 
all Chinese traditional snacks and this dinner also provide a good chance for 
family members to keep in touch with each other.  What’s more, I may receive 
the red envelope money from the my relatives. 


人物題 

If there is, ever, a person who has influenced me most, it must be my mother. 
She is talented, kindly and most of all, she is great. She went to harvard in 
her youth. After she graduated, she got an opportunity of working for UN. 
During this period, she went to South Africa and became to realize the fact 
that there were so many children there lost opportunity of going to school 
because of poverty. When she came back, she made up her mind that she would 
donate some money each year from then on to help build up a school. She have 
set a good example for me and I want to be  the person like me mother. 

發明 

The invention changed my life most is internet. First, when internet was 
invented, people could find all kinds of information on it, like news, music, 
books and ads. It is convenient as long as a person has a computer. 
Secondly, communication among people becomes more frequently after internet 
has been used. People like to chat with their family and friends by internet 
because it is very fast and with nearly no expense at all. 
In addition, education has improved a lot because of the internet as nowadays 
students are more likely to turn in their homework and ask question to their 
professors by using internet. 


玩具 

My favorite toy is a toy plane that my father gave me. When in my childhood, 
I always stay at home alone and the only amusement for me at that time is to 
play with the plane. Furthermore, it made me have a dream of being a pilot. I 
enjoy the feeling when cruising in the sky. I also think it’s my pleasure to 
bring convenience to the busy passengers. Lastly, my father told me that just 
like there is no limitation for plane to fly, the world doesn’t have 
limitation for me to achieve greet accomplishment. I like the meaning so much 
and those are  why I like this toy. 


黃金口語八十題的一些範例 


Description (Mainly) 
1. 說出你認為對你最有用的一本書，並解釋原因。 
The most helpful book for me is the famous English novel "Jane Eyre" written 
by Charlotte Bronte. The heroine called Jane Eyre is outwardly of poor 
appearance but plucky, she posses great courage and indomitable spirit to 
battle against unfair fortune as the governess to the daughter of attractive 
Mr. Rochester. It encourages people to challenge fate and take a positive and 
independent attitude to fight for freedom and equality, thus allowing access 
to our own happiness. 
The most useful book for me is the English dictionary. Firstly, many English 
words have more than one meaning and always confuse me. The dictionary can 
help me get over by offering many detailed explanations and examples. In 
addition, I can also learn how to apply the new words into writing and 
speaking by studying the examples earnestly. 
Furthermore, I can learn a lot of knowledge beside new words. For example, it 
is very likely that a good dictionary illustrate a specific animal or plant 
with a picture. Thus, we get more information out of the dictionary. 


2. Describe the most important decision that you made in your life. 
The most important decision that I have ever made is when I was 19 years old, 
I chose chemistry as my major in my college. It's of great importance because 
it determines what I will learn and what I will do the next four years. What 
is more, it partly determines my future career for the rest of my life. After 
four years of study, I think I made a right decision, because I do like 
chemistry and have learned a lot of skills. I also have learned how to create 
an idea and implement it in my study and scientific research, which is an 
important ability during my lifetime. 
3. 空閒時間用來做什麼? 
4. What will you do to relax yourself? 
(3) I always prefer to spend spare time with my friends in a coffee house, 
because I like the quiet atmosphere and soft music there. There is one such 
coffee house near my university, sometimes we go there to enjoy the delicious 
coffee and cookies on the weekends, and all the things provided there are not 
very expansive. We can just sit down and share our experience with each 
other. So I think a coffee house is an ideal place to have a good time with 
friends. 
(4) I always prefer to go to a coffee house with my friends to relax myself, 
because ----- 

5.當你去restaurant或cafe得時候最care about的features有那些 
Actually, when I go to a restaurant or caf? I only care about some basic 
features. First of all, the most important thing I concern with is the 
sanitary condition. It's directly related to consumers' health, you will feel 
uncomfortable to sit down in a dirty house and use the dirty dishware. In 
addition, I think a good service is also necessary; I don't want to wait for 
a meal for a long time and the waiter/waitress shouldn't give you a cold face 
at least. Besides, the taste of foods provided also plays a crucial role for 
me to judge a restaurant or caf?. 
6. 描述一件自己印象深刻的celebration或者moment。 
The most memorable moment is my graduation dinner party with all my 
classmates. It was such a special day that full of happiness and sorrow. We 
had studied and lived for 4 years and then we had to say goodbye to our 
friends. I will never forget the day we cried together and jointed in 
embrace. We were going different places of China and even the world, so we 
gave best wishes to our dear friends. Because the day means the end of one 
part of our lives and embarks on our promising future. 
7. Describe a social or politics celebration events in your culture. 
8. Favorite time of a year 
(7) Spring Festival may be the most important celebration event in China, 
which symbolizes the beginning of a new year. It allows us to depart from bad 
luck and all displeasure together with the past as well as long for a much 
better future. In addition, the festival provides all Chinese people in the 
world an opportunity to gather with family or friends, enjoying delicious 
food, watching TV celebrating programs, sharing experience in the past year 
and receive best wishes from each other and so on. 
(8) My favorite time of a year is the Spring Festival, which symbolizes---- 
9. 說出你所居住的城市中你最喜歡的地方，給出原因。 
10. 描述一件童年很happy的event，然後explain why it is memorable 
11. Describe an enjoyable event in your childhood 
12. some good news and why 
13. Describe an object which is very important to you. 
14. Describe a special opportunity given to you 
15. What do you miss most when you are away from home? 
16. Describe a letter or poem or ...that is important to you 
(9) My favorite place is the Lianfeng Mountain Park, which locates the small 
Bei Daihe city east of China, abut on Bohai Sea. You can enjoy the fresh air 
among the brushy trees as well as the euphonic birds' singing. More 
amazingly, it doesn't take long to go to the 
seaside. Just imagine the blue sky and ocean together with the beautiful 
sunshine on the beach. Furthermore, I like to collect rainbow seashells on 
the beach. More important, on the seaside I happened to make friends with a 
pretty and kind girl with the same favor for seashells. She gave me some 
heart-shaped seashells, which are very unique, as a remembrance. The trip to 
the small city is really interesting and memorable. 

(10,11) The most happy event in my childhood is the trip to my favorite place 
Lianfeng Mountain Park, which locates ----- 
(12) One of the good news for me is when my parents told me we'll go to the 
Lianfeng Mountain Park, which locates---- 
(13) One of the important object for me is a unique seashell as a gift from 
one of my friends. It recalls my member of the trip to Lianfeng Mountain 
Park, which locates----- 
(14) I once had an opportunity to my favorite place Lianfeng Mountain Park, 
which locates---- 
(15) I miss the beautiful scenery in my hometown the most, especially the 
Lianfeng Mountain Park, which locates----- 
(16) An important letter for me is from one of my friends I met during my 
trip to the Lianfeng Mountain Park, which locates-----. It recalls my memory 
of the beautiful scenery, 
the fresh air among ----- 

17.Favorite room 
My favorite room is my bedroom. It's not very big but I can do many things in 
the room. Firstly, it's the place I study, I have a big book shelf with 
different types of readings, ranging from scientific books to literature 
works, newspapers to magazines. In addition, my bedroom is also the place I 
relax and exercise myself indoor, I can listen to the music, surf the 
internet and doing some boxing to keep fit and healthy. Besides, the room is 
decorated all by myself, just the way I like. So my favorite bedroom gives me 
a lot of fun. 
18. The most efficient transportation in your country。 
? be free of traffic problem and other factors 
   ? faster than bus and automobiles 
            ? frequently and punctually 
The most efficient transportation in our country is subway. First of all, it 
can be free of traffic problems and many other factors that may influence the 
normal operation of transportation. In addition, it runs much faster than bus 
or automobiles even in rush hours and will never stop for a traffic jam. 
Besides, the subway trains come frequently and punctually, thus make it easier\ 
 for passengers to make schedule. All these 
advantages make subway the most efficient transportation. 
19. 說近100年最important的invention之一 
?worldwide connection possible; ?promote development of science & technology; 
?provide entertainment. 
The most important invention in the recent century would definitely be the 
internet, which has changed our life so tremendously. First of all, it makes 
the worldwide connection possible so that it can help human beings to work 
much more conveniently and efficiently. In addition, it has greatly promoted 
the development of science and technology by a number of websites and 
databases of information. Besides, it can provide people with entertainment, 
such as watching movie, chatting room and even shopping. So the internet is 
really an amazing invention. 
20.描述一個你參加過的學校 
I like my university, Nanjing university, which locates the center area of 
Nanjing. We have dormitories, teaching buildings and refectories named by 
number and research buildings named by subject. So you can easily find a 
specific spot. There is also a large playground and gym with a number of 
exercise facilities. Furthermore, it has beautiful scenery in the campus, and 
there are lots of trees, flowers and grasses, so you can enjoy the fresh air 
and the euphonic birds' singing in the morning. 
21. 學生放假應該做些什麼？ 
Students might have many choices to spend a vacation as long as they can make 
the vacation time interesting or helpful. For example, you can visit your 
families or friends, go to concerts or do many other things for relaxation. 
You can also plan a trip to the city or somewhere you are longing for, which 
will help to broaden your view and knowledge. Furthermore, you can also 
choose to have a vacation internship, and the experience will increase your 
income as well as make you familiar with the society. So there is never lack 
of choices. 
23.老師的character 
24.What do you think are the characteristics of a good parent? 
25.說一個你敬佩的人的好性格 
A good teacher should bear many excellent qualities. First of all, a teacher 
should have outstanding teaching ability and an open mind. In other words, 
it's important to be good at encouraging students to think, decide and 
attempt, and the teacher should be willing to learn and accept new things. 
Furthermore, a teacher is supposed to be patient and sincere to all the studen\ 
ts even though they make mistakes in class. A 
teacher should also be an honest and humble person, who opens heart to 
surrounding people and never refuses to acknowledge her shortcomings, even to 
her students. These qualities can make a good teacher. 
26. Characteristics of friends 
Good friends should bear several qualities. First of all, a friend indeed is 
a friend in need. A good friend should be willing to help you when you are in 
trouble, comfort you when you are frustrated. Furthermore, good friends 
should also be honest people, who can open heart to others and never refuse 
to acknowledge their shortcomings. I feel comfortable and safe to get along 
with these types of friends, and they can always offer their opinions for 
your goods. So I think friends like this deserve to be credited as the good 
ones. 
27.good leader應有哪些qualities？ 
A good leader should bear some necessary qualities. First of all, a leader 
should own the ability of team building and help each individual in the team 
to perform their very best. In addition, a good leader should master 
impressive professional knowledge and skills, in order to decide the 
direction of team development and help the subordinates to solve practical 
problems. Furthermore, a good leader should respect the work and be willing 
to work with other team members. These qualities can make a good leader. 
28.描述一次challenging experience，以及如何解決這個challenge 
I once had a tough experience last semester when I was invited to show my 
dance with my friends in a large-scale celebration evening. It was 
challenging because we had only less than two weeks for preparation. Even 
worse, it was the end of the term and we were all busy with our final exams. 
In such a short time, as a leader, I investigated new dancing actions after 
my work during the daytime and taught other members every night. We taught 
and learned together and encouraged each other when we were frustrated. 
Finally, we had achieved a fantastic performance. 
29.說說你向別人要求幫助的經歷，別人是怎麼樣幫助你的 
At the end of last semester I had a tough experience when I was invited to 
show my dance in a large-scale celebration evening, I had less than two weeks 
for preparation and I was so busy with my final exams. I told my dilemma to 
one of my friends who is also good at dancing and has relatively more spare 
time. He asked me not to be gloomy and promised to investigate the dancing 
actions instead of me. He learned new dancing actions during the daytime and 
taught me every night. It did save me a lot of time and I successfully 
accomplished both the performance and exams. 
30.最想學的一個技能 
The skill I want to command is to repair large-scale machines, which is of 
great help in my scientific research. Firstly, if I can repair apparatus in 
my laboratory all by myself, I won't depend on others. Asking others for 
solution usually cost considerable time and money. I even have to please them 
in order to solve the problem as soon as possible. In addition, if I master 
the skill of machine-reparation, I'll be more familiar with the machine and 
working principle and can offer help to others. That's why I want to learn 
the skill of machine-reparation. 
31. 理想的職業 
32. 你的目標是什麼 
I prefer to be a leader, because I want to implement my dream and I think I 
can meet the qualities required for a good leader. First of all, a good 
leader should have the ability of team building, and I believe that I can 
help each individual in the team to perform their very best due to my 
excellent communicating skills. Furthermore, the experience of being a leader 
will make me more mature and capable, because I will learn more from the 
process of planning, organizing and solving unexpected events. So I prefer 
the position of a leader to a follower. 
Preference or Selection 
33. 和朋友在一起，喜歡在restaurant，caf?還是在家 
34. 你和朋友在一起的時候喜歡去哪個地方？為什麼？ 
35. 你通常喜歡去什麼park或者public area。 
Similar to No.3 
36. 森林,沙漠,平原...你喜歡住在哪種環境裏? 
Similar to No.9 
37. Computer have improved our lives while others think computers have caused 
problems 
Similar to No.19 
38. 你是願意當leader還是當follower 
Similar to No.31 
39. 電視對於現代社會有正面作用還是負面作用，選擇其中之一並解釋原因。 
In my view, television has a positive effect for modern society. Firstly, it 
offers us an efficient and convenient way to get the latest news. You can 
directly see what has happened around the entire world just in your home. 
Moreover, television also has brought us a visual enjoyment and broadened our 
knowledge by different types of programs. Finally, television can release job 
seeking pressure at some extent, by providing a job chance for people who are 
willing to be engaged in related career. 
40. Which one acts more influence on your newspaper, TV or teachers? 
41. 人是被電視，報紙，廣播上的資訊影響得多，還是家人朋友得影響多 
I think people nowadays are influenced more by the media rather than their 
family or friends. For one thing, people are exposed to information from 
media much more than they spend time with family or friends. It is inevitable 
for one to absorb things from them and change a previous perception. In 
addition, modern people are more and more independent. They are not easy to 
be affected by another person. But they might believe what on the media, 
because these are more factual things. So I think the media influence people 
more 
42. 你是喜歡自己在家裏吃還是去外面餐館吃？為什麼？ 
(1) cheaper; (2) prepare freely, fun, (3) creative process. 

I prefer eating at home to dining out for many reasons. For one thing, It's 
much cheaper to eat at home. For a student as me, it can easily cause budget 
tension by frequently eating out. Furthermore, I can prepare the food just 
the way I like. Sometimes it can be a fun to experiment on different kinds of 
food and reason which types suit me. In addition, It may be a creative 
process that can provide you a feeling of satisfaction. So I like eating at 
home and I seldom eating out unless for special occasions. 
43. 喜歡到大城市讀書還是小城市讀書。 
I prefer studying in a big city. First of all, the universities in a big city 
have more teaching resources and better available facilities, since they may 
receive more recognition by government. Furthermore, in a big city we have 
more opportunities to broaden our view and we can get more chances for career 
and study development. So I'd like to locate my study area in a big city. 
44. 大學是應該向所有人開放還是只對一部分學生開放 
45. Should the university education be free? 
I don't agree with the claim about university education for all/for free. 
First of all, it can cause tension on teaching resources and available 
facilities. Without any charge of tuition for college students, there will 
definitely be an increasing enrollment, which will result in great budget and 
resources pressure. Moreover, the more college students, the less value of 
the degree. It may go against the original selective purpose of the higher 
education. So I don't think it's wise to make university education for all. 
46. attend college是否比不讀college容易successful in career ,why? 
47. 有些人覺得在大學的學習是很重要的,有的人覺得它並不怎麼重要,你的觀點? 
?accumulating knowledge & recognition by the society 
    ?respected by the society & promotion 
In my opinion, for general people, attending college is very important to 
help us gain success in career. Nowadays, attending college is not only a 
process of accumulating knowledge, but also the recognition of your abilities 
by the society. With a college degree, you'll get more chances of future 
career success. Furthermore, attending college will make you respected by the 
society and give you more opportunities of promotion. So although there are 
some exceptions such as Bill Gates, I believe attending college will prepare 
you much better for future. 
48. 雜誌,小說,詩歌,喜歡哪個 
I like fictions the most. They can relax me when I'm tired and want to have a 
little break, you just need to sit down to enjoy the story in a fiction, just 
imagining what has happened according to the description, as if you are 
watching a movie. For other types of reading materials, although poems may be 
of great literature values, but sometimes they are difficult to understand. 
When I turn to them, I'm just looking for a way of relaxation rather than 
another type of learning. Magazines are always expensive and contain lots of 
advertisements. So I really prefer fictions to the others. 
49. 喜歡一個人住還是和室友住 
I prefer to live with others. First of all, living with someone else won't 
make you feel alone, it's a good way to make friends by sharing experience, 
opinions and feelings with your roommates. Moreover, living with others helps 
in teaching you how to get along with different groups of people and how to 
care and offer helps to others, which will benefit your communication skills. 
I also believe that living with roommates will make life more alive and 
interesting. So I'd like someone to live with me. 
50. 是說願意在辦公室工作還是在家工作，為什麼。 
?can't be fully devoted; ?convenient to communicate 
I rather prefer to work in an office. Firstly, although working at home may 
be comfortable, it's difficult for me to be fully-devoted to work. Maybe I'll 
want to watch TV, surf the internet or even want to have a sleep during the 
work time. So it isn't efficient to work at home. Moreover, it's more 
convenient to communicate with your co-workers or boss when you work in an 
office, thus you can get the assignment more directly and solve problems by 
negotiating with other employees, which helps you do better and learn faster. 
So I prefer the traditional way to work in an office. 
51.Communicate with your family and friends by letter and e-mail or by 
telephone? 
I usually communicate with family or friends by telephone. Firstly of all, I 
feel more close to my family or friends by directly talking to them. Hearing 
their voices gives me a sense of intimacy, especially for a student far away 
from home. Furthermore, it's more efficient to communicate by telephone. I 
can directly describe my life and receive information about my family or 
friends in just several minutes, while transferring information by letter or 
e-mail cost time and energy. So I'd like to choos telephone. 
52. Whether parents should lead their children to watch TV or the children 
should choose 
I think parents should lead their children to watch TV. First of all, 
children are not mature enough to realize which TV programs are suit for 
them. Without a proper guide, children may have been misled by some unhealthy \ 
TV programs. Moreover, parents play an 
important role in helping children distinguish true and false, good and evil, 
beauty and ugly by comparing the situation in TV programs and reality,. 
Besides, parents are also responsible for preventing children from been 
obsessed in watching TV. So I agree with that parents should be able to lead 
their children to watch TV. 
53.Get advice from family and friends or learning through personal experience 
I think it's more important to learn from personal experience, although 
advices from others are helpful and sometimes necessary. First of all, when 
you have problems or get into a dilemma, you are the person most familiar 
with what you really want and it'll promote you to develop the ability to 
solve. Advices from others may be just the opposite with your expectation. In 
addition, more personal experience will make one more mature and capable. You 
can realize the society more comprehensive and objective. So I 'd like to 
learn from personal experience. 
54. Which one do you think is better to help do research, internet or 
academic books? 
55. 你選擇online courses還是traditional courses 
Actually, both of internet and academic books are helpful in doing research. 
But nowadays I think internet is much better. Firstly, internet contains such 
a tremendous amount of information that academic books can never compare 
with. You may also raise a question about a topic and ask for help on the 
internet. Furthermore, it's more efficient and convenient to use the 
internet; all you need is a computer, while carrying books around here and 
there can be very heavy. So I'd like to search online. 
56. Do you prefer to study alone on work assignment from class or to study in 
group? 
57. 同意或不同意students will learn more when they have discussions 
I prefer to study in a group. Firstly, it's inevitable for each of us to 
encounter problems when we study on work assignment. At this time group 
discussions will be very helpful because we can share our knowledge and learn 
a lot from others. Furthermore, group members will help you to find out and 
overcome your shortcomings. Besides, group study is also a chance to 
communicate with others and exercise how to express ourselves. So I prefer to 
study in a group. 
58. Is it important for students to attend class regularly or study by 
oneself? 
I think it's more important for students to study by oneself. Firstly, 
classes given by teachers are designed for most of the students. You may find 
you are not getting enough from the class or you can't catch up with the 
class. In such a case, studying by oneself is crucial to improve your learning\ 
 efficiency. Furthermore, studying by oneself 
will help you to find out your weak points as well as what you are good at, 
which is benefit to you to make schedule and formulate your study plans. So I 
hold that study by oneself is more important. 
59.新生是和其他年級混住還是單獨一個樓 
I tend to support that freshmen live with students of different grades. 
Firstly, freshmen usually choose almost the same common courses, so they have 
communicated enough with others in classes, it's not necessary to make them 
live together for more communication. Furthermore, mixed-type living style 
can also absorb students since freshmen can obtain more experience and 
suggestions from students of higher grades. For these two reasons, I support 
mixed-type living manner. 

60. 應該選擇工作好找的專業還是應該選擇自己感興趣的專業 
61. Subject which will lead to better job or subject which you are interested. 
62. 賺錢的工作還是personal satisfaction高的工作 
I agree with that one should choose a major that suits his/her interests. 
First of all, if you force yourself learn something you don't like, than you 
can't be fully devoted to learn it well and may even feel boring. As a 
result, it will low your study efficiency and can't prepare you very well for 
future development. Furthermore, the demand of job market definitely changes 
more frequently than your interests do. You may find a job popular after you 
graduate, although it may receive poor recognition by the society when you 
entered college. So it's wise to choose a major you are interested in. 
63. Take a long vacation or several short vacations in a year? 
I support the idea of students having several short vacations throughout a 
year. Firstly, short vacations are a great relaxation after busy final exams. 
We can be with family, visit friends, go to concerts and do many other things 
besides classes. Furthermore, students wouldn't forget what they have learned 
and will be more focused on their classes when they return to school if their 
vacation time is divided up throughout the year. And I also think short 
vacations are safe for students who have a travel plan. So I find many 
advantages of short vacations compared with a longer one. 
64.在旅行時，有些人喜歡直接到達目的地，有些人卻喜歡沿途一路上觀光。 
I prefer to take my time and enjoy the scenery along the way. Firstly, there 
can be some surprisingly beautiful sights on the way, and I don't want to 
miss it. It can be even better than my destination. In addition, trip is a 
way of relaxation instead of a job. So you don't need to rush yourself, otherw\ 
ise I may already feel tired when I get to my 
destination. I'd like to relax from the moment I set out. So, that's my 
reason for sight-seeing along the way. 
65.城市建設中應該保持old building呢還是應該用new building replace old building 
I support that old buildings be preserved because they are valuable for 
educational purpose and tourism. An old building usually can serve as 
educational sites for kid to learn the past culture of the city, or as 
reference for students of architecture. In addition, it also boosts the 
development of tourism, especially if the place is a historical heritage, 
which can bring a considerable income. And people have some place to go on 
weekends. So I don't think it's not wise to erase the old building for the 
sake of new ones. 
65.若果有一大筆錢，你會做practice thing or happy thing? 
If I have a great amount of money, I prefer to do some practical things. For 
example, maybe I'll donate the extra money to charitable foundation in order 
to help the poor. I'll be glad to see them happy. Besides, I also want to 
fulfill my parents' dream or employ the best family nursing and healthy 
instruction. They have been always working hard for me and it's a good chance 
to pay back them if I have enough money. So I'm glad to do more practical 
things with a plenty of money rather then just for my fun. 
66. 喜歡看那種電影,為什麼:Comedy, drama… 
I prefer watching a film of comedy. First of all, it can give me a break from 
tedious work, you don't need to think much about the deep meaning, because 
it's not so serious as drama. Furthermore, it can always make you laugh and 
get rid of your sadness, it will empower you with good mood and energy for 
future work. All you need is to lean back and enjoy the shows. So I'd like to 
watch a comedy. 
67. 人們往往認為應該在危急時刻幫助別人，但另一種觀點認為你首先應該看清楚情況 
I definitely agree that one should observe before helping others when there 
is a danger. Firstly, you must keep a clear mind if you are able to help 
solving the emergency, otherwise you may do nothing but even put yourself in 
danger. For example, if the rescue needs more people or other tools, you 
should stop and think about where to get them. In addition, some imprudent 
actions may even deteriorate the situation. If you move a patient with heart 
attacking frequently, it can even cause death. So I think one should observe 
before helping others. 
68.如果有機會你會選擇job or career? 
Agree or Disagree 
69. Do you think the high school should teach music and art as other basic 
science? 
70. 學校應不應該在普通課程中加入Sport courses? 
I agree with that music and art classes should be offered in high school. 
Because there are a group of students that are interested in this area and 
plan to choose either of them as their future career. In addition, music and 
art would make the day more alive and interesting, which in turn leads to 
more learning. It may serve as the major source of joy and relax students 
during their endless scientific classes. I also think music and art education 
can develop creativity and personality (spirit of diligence and perseverance) 
which will benefit your study and career. 
71.Do you agree or disagree: Students should wear uniform in school? 
I tend to disagree that students need to wear uniform in school. Firstly, 
wearing uniform doesn't represent a better performance in school. I think it 
doesn't matter what students wear as long as they are doing fine. In 
addition, school should encourage students to express themselves or develop 
their personality. School can make some restrictions to prevent certain 
inappropriate clothes. Asking students to dress the same everyday may have a 
negative influence on their psychology. So I don't support uniform wearing. 
72. 打手機該不該在一些地方禁止？ 
I think it's necessary to forbid using mobile phone in some cases. For 
example in classes or meetings, the ringing is very disturbing. Although you 
may turn your mobile phone into the mute mode, it will distract you from 
classes thus reduce your study efficiency. And sometimes it's impolite to use 
a mobile phone in some public occasion such as important conferences. 
Furthermore, the microwave radiation of a mobile phone will disturb the 
normal operating of special machines in some places such as hospital and 
laboratory. So forbidding using a mobile phone in some cases is good for you 
as well as the people surrounding you. 
73. 政府是否應該資助建博物館和劇院。說出你的觀點和理由。 
I definitely agree with that government should help in artistic places 
building such as museums and theatres. For one thing, these types of places 
are excellent for promoting appreciating for art. It can help us to regain 
the passion for beauty and depth in life, which is much better than being an 
internet addict or a couch potato. Furthermore, visiting museums and theatres 
will help understand much better in history and art, which will in turn 
benefit enhancing people's culture. So I support government invest money to 
build more museums and theatres. 
74. 同不同意People should always tell the truth . 
I don't' agree that people should always tell the truth, because sometimes 
lying doesn't definitely mean to harm others and is even necessary. For 
example, if you are taking care of a patient suffering from serious illness, 
it's important to give the patient hope, in such a case, in order to help the 
patient to release psychological pressure, modest lying is useful. Another 
example is in business or politics, people always adopt acceptable lies as 
negotiation strategy to win more benefits for their own side. So not telling 
the truth is ok and sometimes helpful. 
75. Do you agree that we can judge a person by the appearance at the first 
glance? 
I don't think it's reliable to judge a person by the first glance. Firstly, 
appearance doesn't represent all. The information of a person you can get 
from a glance is very limited. You can't tell many things just from the 
appearance, such as the past, hobbies, eating habits and so on. Furthermore, 
appearance lies, it may trick you. What you can get is partial, which may 
even lead to prejudice. A person who dress decently and talk sincerely 
doesn't imply he's definitely guiltless and kindly. So I support that one 
shouldn't judge a person just from the appearance. 
76. Have a relaxed and unhurried life, yes or no? 
I don't support having a relaxed and unhurried life. First of all, pressure 
engenders impetus. If you always keep living a relaxed life, you can learn 
nothing and even find life tedious, because you have no idea what you are 
living for. Furthermore, it's impossible for one to be relaxed forever. Life 
is full of chances and challenges. If you are used to an invariable and 
easygoing life style, you'll be not able to deal with the chances or 
emergencies in your life. That's why I oppose the relaxed and unhurried life s\ 
tyle. 
77.學生在工作之前應該做part-time job或者summer intern來確定自己是否合適那份工 
作，同意否？ 
I agree that it's beneficial for students to have a part-time job or summer 
intern before applying for an occupation. Firstly, the importance for their 
future career is obvious, it helps students to be more familiar with the 
society. In addition, students will learn a lot that they can't obtain from 
academic books. They may be more concerned with the experience and knowledge 
accumulated outside school. Besides, students can develop their communicating 
skills with different groups of people in the society. So I support the idea 
to have a part-time job or summer intern. 
78.是否同意學生進入大學前有一個one-year的break 
I tend to agree that students having a one-year break before entering 
college. First of all, so many years of study and exams before college really 
cost energy, after graduating from high school, a long-term break will be 
beneficial for students both physically and mentally. Students can use the 
break to enjoy life and decide their future development. In addition, it's 
also a good chance for poor students to use the break to earn a certain 
tuition for their college study. So I support the one-year break before 
college. 
79.Do you agree or disagree: "The most important lesson can't be learned in 
class." 
I highly agree that the most important lesson can' be learned in class. 
Sometimes practical experience is more important. For example, a student 
major in chemistry may know the textbooks or chemical principles very well, 
but still can encounter numerous problems and difficulties in a real chemical 
experiment without any practice. In addition, practice is the only criteria 
of truth. What you have learned in class are very limited and even false, so 
you shouldn't be superstition about textbooks. Practice need to be paid more 
attention to. 
80. Someone suggests school to cut the Recycling 
I tend to disagree with cutting the recycling in school. Firstly, recycling 
can remind students of the importance of environmental protection. With a 
recycling system, students will discard garbage into the special recycling 
garbage boxes instead of throw them away randomly in campus. In addition, 
school can employ workers to deal with the garbage regularly, it can also 
provide a job chance for people with low-income. So for these two reasons, I 
support that the recycling in school should continue. 
